.TH PYMIND "1" "March 2012" "PyMind 1.0" "User Manual"
.SH NAME
PyMind \- Unofficial Minidmeister command line tool.
.SH DESCRIPTION
usage: pymind [\-h] [\-\-version]
.IP
\fB\-\-interactive\fR|\fB\-\-rename\fR map new_name|\fB\-\-show\fR map|\fB\-\-edit\fR map|\fB\-\-create\fR|\fB\-\-list\fR|\fB\-\-duplicate\fR map|\fB\-\-download\fR map file|\fB\-\-delete\fR map
.SS "optional arguments:"
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
Show program's version number and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-interactive\fR
Interactive mode. For more information use built-in \fBhelp\fR command.
.TP
\fB\-\-rename\fR map new_name
Change map name (root idea title) to a new name.
.TP
\fB\-\-show\fR map
Show map as devtodo list.
.TP
\fB\-\-edit\fR map
Edit map. This option allows user to edit map using interactive editor. See EDIT section for more details.
.TP
\fB\-\-create\fR
Create new map on server.
.TP
\fB\-\-list\fR
List all available maps.
.TP
\fB\-\-duplicate\fR map
Duplicate map on server.
.TP
\fB\-\-download\fR map file
Download map as devtodo list to file.
.TP
\fB\-\-delete\fR map
Delete map on server.

.SH EDIT
Map editing is performed via ncurses based interface. The following operations are supported:
.TP
\fBh\fR Print help message.
.TP
\fBa\fR Add new idea (node) to the map.
.TP
\fBe\fR Edit node (change its title).
.TP
\fBd\fR Delete node.
.TP
\fBr\fR Mode node to another parent..
.TP
\fBu\fR Undo.
.TP
\fBy\fR Redo.
.TP
\fBq\fR Quit.

.SH BUGS
Please, send all bug reports along with suggestions (if any) to mr.kayrick@gmail.com.
