---
title: Version 0.0.3
time: 2012-04-23
categories: alpha
---

Highlights
----------
  
* New feature: widgets 
  Widgets enable dynamic retrieval of Unit attributes, useful for creating
  things like a list of most recent posts or a list of archive links. They
  are Python functions stored in ``widgets.py`` in the project root directory.

* New feature: logging
  Users can now log their entire Volt run and log their custom engines,
  plugins, or widgets.

* New command: ``volt add``
  ``volt add`` creates template files for writing custom engine, plugin, or
  widget, in the root project directory.

* Improved console messages.

* New settings:

  SITE.LOG_LEVEL
    Integer to set logging level, using values similar to Python's logging
    module.

  SITE.WIDGETS
    List of widgets that do not retrieve information from engine units.

  {ENGINE}.WIDGETS
    List of widgets that retrieve information from engine units.

  {ENGINE}.PLUGINS
    List of plugins to run on the specified engine units.

  SITE.EXTRA_PAGES
    List of template file names for creating pages independent from any
    engines. Useful for creating for example a main ``index.html`` file or
    a ``404.html`` file.

  SITE.FILTERS
    List of custom Jinja2 filters.

  SITE.TESTS
    List of custom Jinja2 tests.


Others
------

* Changed/removed these setting names/values:

  - {ENGINE}.CONTENT_DATETIME_FORMAT -> {ENGINE}.DATETIME_FORMAT

  - SITE.PLUGINS -> removed

  - VOLT.LAYOUT_DIR -> SITE.ASSET_DIR

  - default VOLT.ASSET_DIR value is ``assets``

  - default VOLT.CONTENT_DIR value changed to ``contents`` from ``content``

* Active engines must now define a ``units`` property method that returns all
  its units.

* Engine.activate renamed to Engine.preprocess and is not an abstract method
  anymore.

* Plus many other internal code refactorizations and improvements.


Fixes
-----

* ``volt serve`` now only runs ``volt gen`` once

* All Volt commands work from anywhere inside a Volt project directory now
