rkQuery
=======

rkQuery is a library for programmatically building Riak search queries.
It aims to be easy to use, powerful, and protect from injection attacks
that would be possible with simple string interpolation.

Installation
------------

::

    pip install rkquery

Building Queries
----------------

Just start playing around with the ``Q`` object. Literals (that is, raw
strings in queries) will be escaped if necessary:

::

    >>> from rkquery import Q
    >>> Q("some literal")
    <Q: "some literal">
    >>> Q(field="literal value")
    <Q: field:"literal value">
    >>> Q.not_(blocked="yes")
    <Q: NOT blocked:yes>

You can provide multiple arguments, too. The default query combinator is
``AND``:

::

    >>> Q("word1", "word2")
    <Q: word1 AND word2>
    >>> Q(username='foo', password='s3cr3t')
    <Q: password:s3cr3t AND username:foo>

This is just a synonym for ``Q.all()``:

::

    >>> Q.all("word1", "word2")
    <Q: word1 AND word2>
    >>> Q.all(username='foo', password='s3cr3t')
    <Q: password:s3cr3t AND username:foo>

You can construct ``OR`` queries using ``Q.any()``:

::

    >>> Q.any("word1", "word2")
    <Q: word1 OR word2>
    >>> Q.any(username='foo', email='foo@example.com')
    <Q: email:"foo@example.com" OR username:foo>
    >>> Q(field=Q.any("string1", "string2"))
    <Q: field:(string1 OR string2)>

Or by combining existing ``Q`` objects with the bitwise logical
operators:

::

    >>> Q.any("word1", "word2") & Q("word3")
    <Q: (word1 OR word2) AND word3>
    >>> Q("word3") | Q.all("word1", "word2")
    <Q: (word1 AND word2) OR word3>
    >>> Q.any(email="foo@example.com", username="foo") & Q(password="s3cr3t")
    <Q: (email:"foo@example.com" OR username:foo) AND password:s3cr3t>

There are helpers for negation as well (note that 'none' means 'not
any'):

::

    >>> Q.none(blocked="yes", cheque_bounced="yes")
    <Q: NOT (blocked:yes OR cheque_bounced:yes)>
    >>> ~Q.any(blocked="yes", cheque_bounced="yes")
    <Q: NOT (blocked:yes OR cheque_bounced:yes)>

You can do range queries with ``Q.range()``:

::

    >>> Q.range("red", "rum")
    <Q: [red TO rum]>
    >>> Q(field=Q.range("red", "rum"))
    <Q: field:[red TO rum]>

Note that the default is an *inclusive* range (square brackets). The
full set of range queries:

::

    >>> Q.range_inclusive("red", "rum")
    <Q: [red TO rum]>
    >>> Q.range_exclusive("red", "rum")
    <Q: {red TO rum}>
    >>> Q.between("red", "rum")
    <Q: {red TO rum}>

Term boosting is a simple unary operation:

::

    >>> Q("red").boost(5)
    <Q: red^5>

As is proximity:

::

    >>> Q("See spot run").proximity(20)
    <Q: "See spot run"~20>

Running Queries
---------------

When youâ€™ve built a query and you want to execute it, just call
``unicode()`` on it to get the full query string:

::

    >>> query = Q(field1="foo", field2="bar")
    >>> unicode(query)
    u'field1:foo AND field2:bar'

You can then use the standard Riak client search methods with this
string.

Unlicense
---------

This is free and unencumbered software released into the public domain.

Anyone is free to copy, modify, publish, use, compile, sell, or
distribute this software, either in source code form or as a compiled
binary, for any purpose, commercial or non-commercial, and by any means.

In jurisdictions that recognize copyright laws, the author or authors of
this software dedicate any and all copyright interest in the software to
the public domain. We make this dedication for the benefit of the public
at large and to the detriment of our heirs and successors. We intend
this dedication to be an overt act of relinquishment in perpetuity of
all present and future rights to this software under copyright law.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

For more information, please refer to http://unlicense.org/
