.gitignore
MANIFEST.in
MANIFEST.in~
README.txt
exscript.py~
license.txt
report.py~
setup.py
setup.py~
timescript.py~
RTM.egg-info/PKG-INFO
RTM.egg-info/SOURCES.txt
RTM.egg-info/dependency_links.txt
RTM.egg-info/top_level.txt
bin/sbdart/Makefile
bin/sbdart/Makefile~
bin/sbdart/atms.f
bin/sbdart/disort.f
bin/sbdart/disutil.f
bin/sbdart/drt.f
bin/sbdart/params.f
bin/sbdart/sbdart
bin/sbdart/spectra.f
bin/sbdart/tauaero.f
bin/sbdart/tauaero.f~
bin/sbdart/taucloud.f
bin/sbdart/taugas.f
bin/smarts/Makefile
bin/smarts/Makefile~
bin/smarts/smarts295
bin/smarts/smarts295.f
bin/smarts/smarts295.f~
rtm/__init__.py
rtm/__init__.pyc
rtm/__init__.py~
rtm/_rtm.py
rtm/_rtm.pyc
rtm/_rtm.py~
rtm/sbdart.py
rtm/sbdart.pyc
rtm/sbdart.py~
rtm/settings.py
rtm/settings.pyc
rtm/settings.py~
rtm/smarts.py
rtm/smarts.pyc
rtm/smarts.py~
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/.DS_Store
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/ALBEDO.DAT
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/ALFALFA.DAT
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/Asphalt.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/BASALT.DAT
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/Birch.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/BlckLoam.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/BrwnLoam.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/BrwnSand.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/CONCRETE.DAT
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/CSeaWatr.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/Conifers.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/DRY_SAND.DAT
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/DarkLoam.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/DarkSand.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/Decidous.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/DryGrass.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/Dry_Soil.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/Dry_clay.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/DuneSand.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/Fallow.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/FibrGlss.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/FineSnow.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/FirTrees.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/GRASS.DAT
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/Gravel.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/GrazingField.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/GrnGrass.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/GrnlSnow.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/LiteClay.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/LiteLoam.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/LiteSand.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/LiteSoil.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/LngGrass.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/LwnGrass.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/MEADOW1.DAT
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/MEADOW2.DAT
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/MeltSnow.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/NEVE.DAT
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/OSeaWatr.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/OakTree.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/PINETREE.DAT
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/PaleLoam.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/Pinion.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/Plywood.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/RConcrte.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/RYEGRASS.DAT
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/RedBrick.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/RoofTile.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/SNOW.DAT
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/SOIL.DAT
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/SageBrsh.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/Seawater.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/ShtMetal.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/SndGravl.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/SolidIce.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/Spruce.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/TallCorn.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/WETCLAY.DAT
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/WHEAT.DAT
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/WITESAND.DAT
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/WetClay2.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/WetSSoil.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/WetSilt.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/Wetland.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Albedo/WiteVinl.dat
rtm/data/smarts/CIE_data/.DS_Store
rtm/data/smarts/CIE_data/VLambda.dat
rtm/data/smarts/CIE_data/VMLambda.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Gases/.DS_Store
rtm/data/smarts/Gases/Abs_BrO.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Gases/Abs_CH2O.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Gases/Abs_CH4.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Gases/Abs_CO.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Gases/Abs_CO2.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Gases/Abs_ClNO.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Gases/Abs_H2O.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Gases/Abs_HNO2.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Gases/Abs_HNO3.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Gases/Abs_N2.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Gases/Abs_N2O.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Gases/Abs_NH3.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Gases/Abs_NO.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Gases/Abs_NO2.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Gases/Abs_NO3.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Gases/Abs_O2.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Gases/Abs_O3IR.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Gases/Abs_O3UV.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Gases/Abs_O4.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Gases/Abs_SO2I.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Gases/Abs_SO2U.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Solar/.DS_Store
rtm/data/smarts/Solar/Spctrm_0.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Solar/Spctrm_1.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Solar/Spctrm_2.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Solar/Spctrm_3.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Solar/Spctrm_4.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Solar/Spctrm_5.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Solar/Spctrm_6.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Solar/Spctrm_7.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Solar/Spctrm_8.dat
rtm/data/smarts/Solar/Spctrm_U.dat
rtm/test/__init__.py
rtm/test/test_sbdart.py
rtm/test/sbexe/sbout.1
rtm/test/sbexe/sbout.2
rtm/test/sbexe/sbout.3
rtm/test/sbexe/sbout.4
rtm/test/sbexe/sbout.5
rtm/test/smexe/Example.ext.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example.inp.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example.out.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Test_for_July.inp.txt
rtm/test/smexe/smarts295.inp.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 1-USSA_ASTM&ISO_old_Std/.DS_Store
rtm/test/smexe/Example 1-USSA_ASTM&ISO_old_Std/ReadMe_Example1.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 1-USSA_ASTM&ISO_old_Std/smarts295.ext.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 1-USSA_ASTM&ISO_old_Std/smarts295.inp.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 1-USSA_ASTM&ISO_old_Std/smarts295.out.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 10-High_UV_ref_spectrum/ReadMe_Example10.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 10-High_UV_ref_spectrum/smarts295.ext.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 10-High_UV_ref_spectrum/smarts295.inp.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 10-High_UV_ref_spectrum/smarts295.out.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 11-Vertical_receivers/.DS_Store
rtm/test/smexe/Example 11-Vertical_receivers/ReadMe_Example11.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 11-Vertical_receivers/smarts295.ext.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 11-Vertical_receivers/smarts295.out.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 2-Arizona_UV_tracking/.DS_Store
rtm/test/smexe/Example 2-Arizona_UV_tracking/ReadMe_Example2.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 2-Arizona_UV_tracking/smarts295.ext.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 2-Arizona_UV_tracking/smarts295.inp.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 2-Arizona_UV_tracking/smarts295.out.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 2-Arizona_UV_tracking/smarts295.scn.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 3-USSA_UV/.DS_Store
rtm/test/smexe/Example 3-USSA_UV/ReadMe_Example3.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 3-USSA_UV/smarts295.ext.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 3-USSA_UV/smarts295.inp.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 3-USSA_UV/smarts295.out.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 4-UV_Spectrum_Summer/.DS_Store
rtm/test/smexe/Example 4-UV_Spectrum_Summer/ReadMe_Example4.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 4-UV_Spectrum_Summer/smarts295.ext.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 4-UV_Spectrum_Summer/smarts295.inp.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 4-UV_Spectrum_Summer/smarts295.out.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 4-UV_Spectrum_Summer/smarts295.scn.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 5-USSA_085/.DS_Store
rtm/test/smexe/Example 5-USSA_085/ReadMe_Example5.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 5-USSA_085/smarts295.ext.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 5-USSA_085/smarts295.inp.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 5-USSA_085/smarts295.out.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 6-USSA_084/.DS_Store
rtm/test/smexe/Example 6-USSA_084/ReadMe_Example6.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 6-USSA_084/smarts295.ext.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 6-USSA_084/smarts295.inp.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 6-USSA_084/smarts295.out.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 7-Phoenix_summer_UV/.DS_Store
rtm/test/smexe/Example 7-Phoenix_summer_UV/ReadMe_Example7.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 7-Phoenix_summer_UV/smarts295.ext.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 7-Phoenix_summer_UV/smarts295.inp.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 7-Phoenix_summer_UV/smarts295.out.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 8-Phoenix_summer_day_UV/.DS_Store
rtm/test/smexe/Example 8-Phoenix_summer_day_UV/ReadMe_Example8.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 8-Phoenix_summer_day_UV/smarts295.inp.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 8-Phoenix_summer_day_UV/smarts295.out.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 9-NREL_summer_scan/.DS_Store
rtm/test/smexe/Example 9-NREL_summer_scan/ReadMe_Example9.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 9-NREL_summer_scan/smarts295.inp.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 9-NREL_summer_scan/smarts295.out.txt
rtm/test/smexe/Example 9-NREL_summer_scan/smarts295.scn.txt