django-pagination-plus
======================

This template tag library is used for displaying pagination links in paginated
Django views. It exposes a template tag `{% paginationplus %}` that will take
care of iterating over the page numbers.

Usage
-----

Add `paginationplus` to your `INSTALLED_APPS` in your settings.

At the start of the template for your paginated view, use the following to load
the tag module:

    {% load paginationplus %}

Then, at the position you want your pagination links to appear, use the
following block tag.

    {% paginationplus page_obj url_name url_arg1=... url_arg2=... %}
        ...
    {% endpaginationplus %}

The first argument passed to the opening tag is the `Page` object of your
paginated view. The remaining arguments are the same as the arguments passed to
the built-in `{% url %}` tag, minus the argument that takes the value for the
page number in the view, eg. `page` in the generic view `ListView`.

The block iterates over the page numbers available from the `Paginator` object
associated with the `Page` object that is passed as the first argument to the
opening tag.

The block's content is rendered once for each iteration, and within this block,
a template variable named `paginationplus` is available.

This template variable exposes four attributes:

  * `number`
    The page number that is the subject of this iteration
  * `url`
    Contains the url of the page for the page number currently iterated over.
  * `is_filler`
    When this is True, the current iteration does not represent a page number,
    but instead represents a filler, ie. a hole in the sequence of page numbers.
    See below for more information.
  * `is_current`
    When this is True, the current iteration represents number of the page that
    is currently displayed in the view.
    
Single tag usage
----------------

An alternative to the block tag, is the following:

    {% paginationplus page_obj url_name url_arg1=... url_arg2=... ... with 'template/name.html' %}

Using `with` in the tag indicates that the iteration will not occur in a block,
but instead in the template that follows `with`. Within this template, the
parent template's full context is available, with an added `paginationplus`
variable. The template passed to the tag needn't be a string, any available
template variable will do.
    
Settings
--------

By default, paginationplus will support displaying the links for the first,
previous, current, next, and last page. For instance, if you have a paginated
view with 99 pages, and the current page is page 30, the following sequence will
be iterated over: `[1, None, 29, 30, 31, None, 99]`. Suppose the current page is
page 3, the sequence will be `[1, 2, 3, 4, None, 99]`.

In the above sequences, the `None` values represent a hole in the page number
sequence, and for these holes, the `paginationplus` template variable will have
its `is_filler` attribute set to `True`, the `number` and `url` attributes will
be set to `None`, and `is_current` will be set to `False`.

To disable this behavior, and iterate over all available page numbers, you can
set the `PAGINATIONPLUS_CONTIGUOUS` setting to `True` in your project's settings.

To control the number of page numbers before and after the current page that
will be iterated over, you can set the `PAGINATIONPLUS_MAX_DISTANCE`.

For instance, when `PAGINATIONPLUS_MAX_DISTANCE` is set to 2, the following
sequence will be iterated over when the number of pages is 99 and the current
page is 30: `[1, None, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, None, 99]`. And when the current page is 3,
the sequence will be `[1, 2, 3, 4, 5, None, 99]`.